ECE13 Lab07: Basic IO on a Microcontroller  
Date: May 16, 2025  
“Author: Akshera Paladhi (apaladhi@ucsc.edu)”  
“Collaborators: ”“

In the next section you should provide a summary of the lab in your own words. Highlight what you thought were the important aspects of the lab. If these differ from how the lab manual presents things, make a note of that. 

	The lab has 5 parts and there is an extra credit part where it combines all 5 parts. So for 
The first part is called bounce_timers.c and this code will basically trigger an LED based on the time intervals given, but this will only be for the last three leds at the bottoms. So Timer A triggers every 2 seconds, Timer B triggers every 3 seconds, and Timer C triggers every 5 seconds. There is also another part to part 1 which is Leds.c which will control all the LEDs on the nucleo board and will help with the rest of the other parts as well so the leds work properly. The second part is called bounce_switch.c and this code basically speeds up the led and slows down. Like when all the switches are to the left it will go very slow and when it is to the right switches it will speed up and then basically these Leds in order will go up and down or go down and reverse order. Then we got part 3 which is called Button.c and ButtonTest.c so this basically reads which buttons has been pressed and if it gets pressed it will say up and when it releases it will say down and whichever button you press, it will also tell you which button has been pressed. Then part 4 is bounce_buttons which basically is when you press a button it will light up two specific leds and when you press it again it will turn them off. Then the final part is bounce_adc which reads a value from 0 to 4095 and the potentiometer controls these values. There is also an extra credit part of this lab that essentially makes the led go back and forth and then when you press any buttons it will pause this and then when you press a button again it will unpause this back forth motion of the leds. Then the adc will also speed up this back and forth motion so 4095 is fastest and 0 is slowest. 

The following section should describe your approach to the lab. What was your general approach to the lab? Did you read the manual first or what were your first steps? What went wrong as you worked through it? What worked well? How would you approach this lab differently if you were to do it again? How did you work with other students in the class and what did you find helpful/unhelpful?

	My general approach to the lab was the read the entire lab manual first and then start with 
the Led.c file because that is file that controls all the Leds and the rest of the parts 
depends on this file. Then after that I did each part based on what the manual said and debugged and once each part worked then I would go to the next part. My adc file went wrong and it took me a while to realize my platformio had some issues which is why none of the changes I have been making have been making my nucleo work. So I had to go back and revise this. My other four parts worked pretty well but it did take some time though to figure out the led schematic outline and then figure out the logic for that because it was slightly confusing since it was not completely in order. I would have approached this lab differently by first making sure my platformio worked and all my files were named correctly because this actually was my main issue at the start. I did not work with other students to help me understand the main goal of this lab but mostly I did by myself and asked the TAs for help. I found helpful lab manuals and the discussion sections to finish my lab. 

The final section should describe the results of you implementing the lab. How did it end up finally? How many hours did you end up spending on it? What did you like about it? What did you dislike? Was this a worthwhile lab? Do you have any suggestions for altering it to make it better? What were the hardest parts of it? Did the points distribution for the grading seem appropriate? Did the lab manual cover the material in enough detail to start you off? Did examples or discussions during class help you understand this lab or would more teaching on the concepts in this lab help?
	
My code ended up finally working for all five parts and the extra credit part I got it to work for the most part as well. I spent about over 25 hours in this lab and I liked how unlike all the other labs I finally had a use for my nucleo and I could see my results display not just on the OLED but the led lights. I found it more interesting and entertaining to do because the results were so cool to look at. I disliked that I had to understand where the LEDS were connected or generally I had to understand the whole schematic of this nucleo and incorporate it into my logic so my code would work. I did think this lab was worthwhile and I do not have any suggestion for altering it to make it better. The hardest parts were definitely the adc file and the extra credit. I did think the point distribution for the grading seems appropriate. Also I found it very difficult to set the thresholds or understand how the potentiometer worked since there were so many issues and 5 different thresholds or comparisons that needed to be done so it would go all the way up to 4095 and all the way down to 0. The lab manual did cover the material enough to start me off, especially because it provided a pseudocode for each part and schematic which saved a lot of time. The discussion section helped and some examples helped me understand this lab but for the most part the lab manuals and the other resources given with it were helpful. Overall, this lab was really fun to do and I had so much fun doing it because the results were nice to see. 
