**ECE13 Lab02: Calculator README**

“Author: Akshera Paladhi (apaladhi@ucsc.edu)”  
“Collaborators:”

1. What happens if the line “scanf(" ");” executes? Why?   
   If the line “scanf(" ");” executes, nothing will happen because it is basically to wait for the user to input some spaces or tabs and then do nothing about this input. So it basically indefinitely waits and then it pauses until it does see a non-whitespace character and that is when scanf returns a 0 and if it is inside a loop the value 0 will repeatedly start printing.   
     
2. In this lab, we forbid you from using printf() or scanf() inside of certain functions. Explain why a rule like this is useful.   
   A rule like this is useful because the math functions should only calculate and return results. The printf() and scanf() should be separated because if they are part of math functions then it will be tied to the console input and you can not use it in the actual calculator run function. Essentially logic functions should be separated from printf() or scan(f) so there are no errors and it is easier to read the code.   
     
3. How long did this lab take you? Was it harder or easier than you expected? What challenges did you encounter?  
   This lab took me four days to complete. It was easier than I expected. The challenges that I encountered were for absolute value function. I kept getting a result of \-0 everytime I inputted 0, and to fix it I realized I just had to change my if statement from if (operand \> 0\) to if (operand \>= 0). I forgot to add that even when it is also 0 and not just a positive number it stays the same. Another challenge I encountered was with the round function and how I could use the casting method rather than the while loop method to make it more efficient myself. So to work my way through this challenge I understood what an int meant and a double and looked through readings. Then, I implemented this method where if the number that the user gave me was a positive or greater than or equal to 0, I would first add 0.5 to the number the user gave me. Then I casted that to int which would round down the double to the nearest integer. Then for the negative number I would subtract 0.5 to the number the user gave me. Then I casted that to int which would round down the double to the nearest integer. The reason I would add or subtract 0.5 is because when a number is casted to int it rounds down so we "nudge" the number so that it gets rounded to the nearest whole number instead. Also another error is for the round function and basically if I typed in a really long integer number it would not work accurately so I had to add the “long long int” in order for it to handle any integer value. Another issue I faced was making sure the user was only inputting a numerical value for the operand questions and only inputting the correct operand and I found the easiest way to do was to use an if else loop and in here I created ‘temp’ which made sure that the user only put in a numerical value and the ‘dummy’ would check if there were any extra characters after the number and if there it would return false and ask user to print another operand. 
