ECE13 Lab08: Toaster Oven  
Date: May 23, 2025  
“Author: Akshera Paladhi (apaladhi@ucsc.edu)”  
“Collaborators: Aaron Ovadia (amovadia@ucsc.edu) & Prithika Thanigaivelan (pthaniga@ucsc.edu)“”

I talked to Aaron and Prithik about how button logic worked for each function and then I also talked about the drawing of the OLED as well. This really helped me figure out what was wrong with my original logic so I could go back and fix it. 

In the next section you should provide a summary of the lab in your own words. Highlight what you thought were the important aspects of the lab. If these differ from how the lab manual presents things, make a note of that. 
The lab basically is building an oven but now with all features of a real oven just some. This oven lab has three modes and they are bake, toast and broil and everytime you press the third button on the Nucleo board you can go to the next mode in the order I listed above. However, you can only go to the next mode if and only if you press and hold the button. If you just press the button when you are in toast or broil mode it will not do anything but if you just press the button in bake mode it will go back and forth from time and temperature allowing the user to control their time and temperature settings. Additionally when you go to the other modes toast and broil you will only be able to control their times because toast does not even have a temperature that is shown and for broil there is fixed temperature of 500 degrees. Essentially the third button controls the setting of the mode, temperature, and times. Then we have the functions of the fourth button and this button will count down for the timer and reset it and turn on and turn off the leds. So basically when you press the button it will turn the leds on and start counting down the timer and when you long press the button it will reset the timer and turn off the leds and go back to its original state where the user can continue to change the mode and set time and temperature. So this code has a state machine part and the update led and main and the interrupts which all come together to help all parts of this code to work together. 

	
The following section should describe your approach to the lab. What was your general approach to the lab? Did you read the manual first or what were your first steps? What went wrong as you worked through it? What worked well? How would you approach this lab differently if you were to do it again? How did you work with other students in the class and what did you find helpful/unhelpful?
My general approach to this lab was to figure out all the files that I needed and had to edit and not edit and then I pushed all these files. I also wrote my name on everything so that way I follow basic guidelines. I read the manual first because this definitely tells me what I need to have and make sure I am following the grading rubric as I write my code. I think what worked well was my led button 4 and the rest of the code I was struggling to implement and I think it is because I was rushing a lot of the parts. I was really confused because I felt like there was a lot of new information I was learning especially with how state machines worked. I was also confused as to how the long press or short press worked as well. My long press and short press were really difficult to work with for button 3. I think what worked well was my potentiometer since I already did that for the previous lab. I would approach this lab differently by starting way earlier and not rush at the last moment because I had a lot to debug in a short period of time and could not get to every part of the lab completely I feel. I worked with other students to help me fix my issues and kind of figured out the basic pseudo code logic to see how each button worked and talked it through and this really helped with getting the majority of my code to work. 

	

The final section should describe the results of you implementing the lab. How did it end up finally? How many hours did you end up spending on it? What did you like about it? What did you dislike? Was this a worthwhile lab? Do you have any suggestions for altering it to make it better? What were the hardest parts of it? Did the points distribution for the grading seem appropriate? Did the lab manual cover the material in enough detail to start you off? Did examples or discussions during class help you understand this lab or would more teaching on the concepts in this lab help?

My code ended up almost done. There were definitely more things I could have debugged and added to make it more smoother and the code too is a bit all over the place too. I spent over 40 hours in this lab. I liked that this lab was building an oven on this miniature oled which was super cool and different from all the labs. I really disliked how long it took me and all the information because it felt like a lot and it was extremely time consuming since I could not focus on my other two classes especially because I do not have much experience in coding. This lab was worthwhile. I just wish it was a bit less to do. Is it like maybe having more time would be even better. The grading does seem appropriate and the lab manual did cover a lot of material to start me off like the diagram was super helpful to see how everything should play out. The examples or discussions during class did help me understand this lab and maybe a bit more teaching on the concepts in this lab would help. 

